# Datasheet for Asteroid Metal Mass

## Motivation for Dataset Creation

Why was the dataset created? (e.g., were there specific tasks in mind, or a specific gap that needed to be filled) 

What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for? 
Are there obvious tasks for which it should not be used?

Has the dataset been used for any tasks already? If so, where are the results so others can compare (e.g., links to published papers)?

Who funded the creation of the dataset? If there is an associated grant, provide the grant number.

Any other comments?

## Dataset Composition

What are the instances? (that is, examples; e.g., docu- ments, images, people, countries) 

Are there multiple types of instances? (e.g., movies, users, ratings; people, interac- tions between them; nodes, edges)

Are relationships between instances made explicit in the data (e.g., social network links, user/movie ratings, etc.)?

How many instances of each type are there?

What data does each instance consist of? “Raw” data (e.g., unprocessed text or images)? Features/attributes? 

Is there a label/target associated with instances? 

If the instances are related to people, are subpopulations identified (e.g., by age, gender, etc.) and what is their distribution?

Is everything included or does the data rely on external resources? (e.g., websites, tweets, datasets) 
If external resources, 
a) are there guarantees that they will exist, and remain constant, over time; 
b) is there an official archival version. Are there licenses, fees or rights associated with any of the data?

Are there recommended data splits or evaluation measures? (e.g., training, development, testing; accuracy/AUC)

What experiments were initially run on this dataset?

Have a summary of those results and, if available, provide the link to a paper with more information here.
Any other comments?


## Data Collection Process

How was the data collected? (e.g., hardware apparatus/sensor, manual human curation, software program, software interface/API; how were these constructs/measures/methods validated?)

Who was involved in the data collection process? (e.g., students, crowdworkers) How were they compensated? (e.g., how much were crowdworkers paid?)

Over what timeframe was the data collected? Does the collection timeframe match the creation timeframe?

How was the data associated with each instance acquired? Was the data directly observable (e.g., raw text, movie ratings), reported by subjects (e.g., survey responses), or indirectly inferred/derived from other data (e.g., part of speech tags; model-based guesses for age or language)? If the latter two, were they validated/verified and if so how?

Does the dataset contain all possible instances? Or is it, for instance, a sample (not necessarily random) from a larger set of instances?

If the dataset is a sample, then what is the population?

What was the sampling strategy (e.g., deterministic, proba- bilistic with specific sampling probabilities)? Is the sample representative of the larger set (e.g., geographic coverage)? If not, why not (e.g., to cover a more diverse range of in- stances)? How does this affect possible uses?

Is there information missing from the dataset and why? (this does not include intentionally dropped instances; it might include, e.g., redacted text, withheld documents) 

Is this data missing because it was unavailable?

Are there any known errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the data?

Any other comments?

## Data Preprocessing
What preprocessing/cleaning was done? (e.g., dis- cretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values, etc.)

Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned data? (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)

Is the preprocessing software available?


## Legal & Ethical Considerations
If the dataset relates to people (e.g., their attributes) or was generated by people, were they informed about the data collection? (e.g., datasets that collect writing, photos, interactions, transactions, etc.)

If it relates to other ethically protected subjects, have appropriate obligations been met? (e.g., medical data might include information collected from animals)

If it relates to people, were there any ethical review applications/reviews/approvals? (e.g. Institutional Review Board applications)

If it relates to people, were they told what the dataset would be used for and did they consent? What community norms exist for data collected from human communications? If consent was obtained, how? Were the people provided with any mechanism to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?

If it relates to people, could this dataset expose people to harm or legal action? (e.g., financial social or otherwise) What was done to mitigate or reduce the potential for harm?

If it relates to people, does it unfairly advantage or disadvantage a particular social group? In what ways? How was this mitigated?

If it relates to people, were they provided with privacy guarantees? If so, what guarantees and how are these ensured?

Does the dataset comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)? Does it comply with any other standards, such as the US Equal Employment Opportunity Act?

Does the dataset contain information that might be considered sensitive or confidential? (e.g., personally identifying information)

Does the dataset contain information that might be considered inappropriate or offensive?

Any other comments?

Does this dataset collection/processing procedure achieve the motivation for creating the dataset stated in the first section of this datasheet?

Any other comments?


## Dataset Distribution

How is the dataset distributed? (e.g., website, API, etc.; does the data have a DOI; is it archived redundantly?)

When will the dataset be released/first distributed? (Is there a canonical paper/reference for this dataset?)

What license (if any) is it distributed under? Are there any copyrights on the data?

Are there any fees or access/export restrictions? Any other comments?


## Dataset Maintenance

Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?

How does one contact the owner/curator/manager of the dataset (e.g. email address, or other contact info)?

Will the dataset be updated? How often and by whom? How will updates/revisions be documented and communi- cated (e.g., mailing list, GitHub)? Is there an erratum?

If the dataset becomes obsolete how will this be communicated?

Is there a repository to link to any/all papers/systems that use this dataset?

If others want to extend/augment/build on this dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so? If so, is there a process for tracking/assessing the quality of those contributions. What is the process for communicating/distributing these contributions to users?
Any other comments?